doc: devicetree: edits to driving gpio guide (#18528)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/config_and_build/hardware/add_new_driver.rst

.. _add_new_driver:

Adding new drivers
##################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Adding drivers to your embedded project lets add support for additional hardware components and extend functionalities of your application.

> To add a new driver to an application in the nRF Connect SDK, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new driver to an application in the |NCS|, complete the following steps:
```

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Create the driver files
***********************

First, create the files that will provide code for communication with the driver.
You will need the following files:

> * :file:`CMakeLists.txt` - This file is needed for the :ref:`app_build_system` must be able to include your driver files when generating the build scripts during the :ref:`configuration_system_overview_config`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :file:`CMakeLists.txt` - This file is needed for the :ref:`app_build_system` to be able to include your driver files when generating the build scripts during the :ref:`configuration_system_overview_config`.
```

  Add the driver directory as a Zephyr module in this file.

>   See :ref:`configuring_cmake` for more information.

Author: Rephrased slightly.

* :file:`Kconfig` - This file will include all custom Kconfig options for your driver, including the Kconfig option to enable and disable the driver.
  See Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:kconfig_tips_and_tricks` for more information about creating custom Kconfig options.

> * Driver's C and H files - These files will include the code for your driver, including :ref:`zephyr:device_struct`, device definition through :c:macro:`DEVICE_DEFINE` (for non-devicetree devices) or :c:macro:`DEVICE_DT_DEFINE` (for devicetree-based devices) macros, and other elements.

Author: Please check after edits.

> * Driver's C and H files - This file will include the code for your driver, including :ref:`zephyr:device_struct`, device definition through :c:macro:`DEVICE_DEFINE` (for non-devicetree devices) or :c:macro:`DEVICE_DT_DEFINE` (for devicetree-based devices) macros, and other elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Driver's C and H files - These files will include the code for your driver, including :ref:`zephyr:device_struct`, device definition through :c:macro:`DEVICE_DEFINE` (for non-devicetree devices) or :c:macro:`DEVICE_DT_DEFINE` (for devicetree-based devices) macros, and other elements.
```

  See Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:device_model_api` for more information.

> As a reference, you can check the |NCS| :ref:`drivers`, whose code is located at :file:`nrf/drivers`.

Author: Rephrased the whole section.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Create a devicetree binding
***************************

> The devicetree bindings are used to match the devicetree nodes with the hardware and allow the build system to create the appropriate match pair during the configuration phase.

Author: Rephrased the whole section.

The match pairs use :ref:`zephyr:dt-bindings-file-syntax`.

Create a devicetree binding YAML file for your driver in :file:`dts/bindings` directory in your project, using the :ref:`compatible <zephyr:dt-bindings-compatible>` property.

For more information about devicetree bindings, read the :ref:`documentation about them in Zephyr <zephyr:dt-binding-compat>`.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Include the driver in your application
**************************************

To enable the driver in your application's configuration, complete the following steps:

1. Enable the necessary Kconfig options in the application's :file:`prj.conf` file.
   This includes the Kconfig option you defined for enabling and disabling the driver.

>    See :ref:`configuring_kconfig` for information how to enable Kconfig options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   See :ref:`configuring_kconfig` for information about how to enable Kconfig options.
```

#. Create or modify a devicetree overlay file for your board to add the necessary devicetree node for your custom driver.
   This step is crucial for connecting the driver to the specific hardware on your board.
   For information about how to create or modify devicetree files, see :ref:`configuring_devicetree`.
#. Include the appropriate header file for your custom driver in your application code.

Useful |NCS| modules
********************

If your application uses buttons and LEDs, you can use the :ref:`Common Application Framework <caf_overview>` with its :ref:`button <caf_buttons>` and :ref:`LED <caf_leds>` modules to gather input from them and drive them using application events.

Implementation examples
***********************

> 

Author: Rephrased slightly.

   If your driver exposes a generic API (for example, :ref:`sensor driver API <zephyr:sensor>`), you can use generic headers defined for the API.

DevAcademy courses
******************

`Nordic Developer Academy`_ contains introductory courses to the |NCS| and Zephyr.
See the following course lessons to get started with driver development:

* `Lesson 6 – Serial communication (I2C)`_ in `nRF Connect SDK Fundamentals course`_ describes how to communicate with a sensor connected over I2C using I2C APIs.
* `Lesson 5 – Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)`_ in `nRF Connect SDK Intermediate course`_ describes how to communicate with sensors over SPI in Zephyr.
* `Lesson 7 - Device driver model`_ in `nRF Connect SDK Intermediate course`_ describes how to start with adding your own sensor driver in the Exercise 1.

Related documentation
*********************

The :ref:`nrf_desktop` application describes how to :ref:`add a new motion sensor to the project <porting_guide_adding_sensor>`.

Implementation examples
***********************

Check the driver implementation examples at the following paths:

* |NCS|: :ref:`drivers`, with code located at :file:`nrf/drivers`.

> * Zephyr: :zephyr:code-sample-category:`drivers`, with code located at :file:`zephyr/samples/drivers`.

Reviewer 2: You could also link to `zephyr/drivers` for driver implementation examples available in Zephyr
